# PGP_Shiny
Backtest of PGP using Shiny GUI.  This is written in R and uses the Posit (formerly RStudio) for the GUI.  A working version is available at https://rmacey.shinyapps.io/PrettyGoodProtection/

PGP stands for “Pretty Good Protection” or “Pretty Good Participation” depending on the direction of the market. PGP is designed to provide most of the gains of bull markets while significantly reducing losses in protracted bear markets. It shifts investment allocations between stocks and cash.  The goal of PGP is to reduce the downside risk (protection) while keeping most of the upside (participation).

Disclaimers, Warnings, etc
PGP stands for “Pretty Good Protection” or “Pretty Good Participation” depending on the direction of the market. The name pays homage to “Pretty Good Privacy”, an encryption/decryption algorithm used to protect computer data. The name was chosen by us to emphasize that the strategy is not perfect.  For example, it is designed to protect against protracted bear markets; it will not protect a portfolio against a sudden crash. Additionally, it is geared to avoid the full brunt of bear markets, not small losses. It is also designed to participate in bull markets. Of course what has appeared to work historically may not work in the future or may work to a different degree. As a final disclosure, this strategy will underperform some of the time, particularly in two scenarios. The first is an oscillating (volatile, sideways) market. In such a market, this strategy might be subject to whipsaw. In this environment it might under-perform buying and holding stocks, but we would not expect large drawdowns. The second period of weak relative performance would be just after the end of a bear market. The PGP strategy should then be in cash and would not participate in the new bull market until a new buy signal months later.

The performance shown here is a hypothetical (a.k.a. paper) portfolio; it is not actual performance of any actual portfolio. Future performance may be worse. Importantly, these returns are not adjusted for the effect of investment management fees or commissions which would cause the performance to be less than what is shown here. Past performance is no guarantee of future performance.
